## Analysis

BPD patrol officers are each assigned a beat- 1 officer per beat- where they are responsible for responding to calls for service and proactively investigating and preventing crime. In the context of this patrol strategy, over-policing of minorities would come in the form of smaller beats in minority neighborhoods, thereby increasing the overall police concentration where minorities are concentrated. Essentially, we are testing for the effect of implicit bias at the decision to draw a beat boundary.

In the graph above, we see total beat population compared to the percent of the beat population that is black. The red line represents a trendline as calculated by a regression analysis, and the shaded grey area represents the confidence interval of the regression line. The correlation is substantial and statistically significant, which would indicate some level of over-policing present; however, by changing how we measure beat size, we compare calls for service weighted for priority level compared to the percent of the beat population that is black. When using the number of calls for service instead the population as a baseline, we no longer observe a statistically significant correlation.

It is important to note that, even when controlling for calls for service, beat 10 is an outlier. Beat 10 receives relatively few calls for service and is the beat with the highest proportion of black residents. Though beat 10 makes fewer stops than most other beats, it stands to reason that residents of beat 10 are exposed to more police presence than other beats. In the past, beat 10 experienced high rates of part 1 crimes, which in turn explains why it was drawn around such a small area in terms of population. That trend that has since reversed, leaving beat 10 as a relatively quiet neighborhood that nevertheless receives the same police resources that busier beats receive.
