### Veil of Darkness

The "veil of darkness" test is a test of implicit bias at the decision to stop. Though calculated and reported by both the RIPA Board and the Stanford Open Policing Project, the test is often criticized for underestimating the impact of implicit bias. The veil of darkness test looks at the proportion of stops that are of a racial group when it is light outside versus when it is dark outside. If black people are stopped more often in the light than in the dark, it could indicate that the visibility of race is playing a role in the decision to stop. The test takes advantage of daylight savings time by looking at times of the day (say, 6:30pm) that for half of the year are in the dark and half of the year in the light. In that way the test can control for any changes in the distribution of who is on the street throughout the day (as opposed to just doing day vs. night) while observing the difference in stop patterns when race is more or less visible. 

The test relies on the assumption that race is more apparent to the officer in the light than in the dark, and to the extent that the assumption is violated by the presence of streetlights or racially correlated characteristics of the car or neighborhood, the validity of the test is undermined. Nevertheless, as long as the assumption holds on average, the test can indicate the presence of the effect; that is, a result concluding a statistically significant result would be evidence of the presence of bias, while a null result would not necessarily prove the absence of bias.

The graph below is a visual representation of the comparison the test makes, with counts being disaggregated by beat, and the size of each beat's circle reflecting the number of stops made in each beat over the indicated time period. Beats that lie above the dotted line stop white people less often in the light than in the dark. The formal evaluation of the test is done in a logistic regression model. The model of the Berkeley data finds no statistically significant correlation between the visibility of race and the race of the person being stopped.